APPENDIX. ‘277

of Aldrich’s text will in most instances enable the reader
to compare and classify Aristotle's examples for himself.
Indeed, Aristotle himself confesses that the arrangement
is in some degree arbitrary, and that the same Fallacy
will admit of being classed under different heads.

As regards Materia] Fallacies of Conception and Judg-
ment, I have contented myself with indicating, in the most
general way, the sources of Obscurity aud Indistinctness
in Concepts, and of Falsity in Judgments. A concept is
obscure, when it cannot be distinguished as a whole from
certain others: it is indistinct, when its several corn-
ponent parts cannot be distinguished from each otherd.
The obscurity or indistinctness of a concept may ob-
viously arise, either from accidental circumstances, such
as the wantos a sufficient observation of the object ou
the part of this or that individua] thinker, or from
circumstances essential to the concept itself, such as the
want of those conditions which experience shews us to
be indispensable to all clear or distinct thinking. Under
this head may be classed the notions, so familiar to all
students of Logic, of summum qeqzus and infima species.
Both of these terms represent limits to which we may
indefinitely approximate in thought, but which we never
actually attain. Neither of them can be regarded as
logically inconceivable3 for, under different conditions
of the matter of our thought, both might be practically
apprehended, But, in actual thinking, it becomes manifest
that our several concepts present in all cases such an
affinity or homogeneity one with another, that it is im-
possible, on the one hand, to fix on two cognate genera
which possess no common clement to form a higher
genus, (until we ari-ive at abstractions too empty to be

‘¹ This distinction is due to Leibnitz. See his Mpclitationes de C'nqnitiane,
Ver-itare et Ideis. Opera, ed. Erdmann, p· 79.

